---
layout: post
title:      "My Journey to Become a Software Engineer"
date:       2020-09-21 23:38:28 -0400
permalink:  my_journey_to_become_a_software_engineer
---


I was first introduced to the world of programming as a freshman in high school, where I decided to take intro to computer science principles as an elective because I use technology very frequently and was interested in getting to know more about computers. The purpose of the class was to teach us the fundamentals of development and prepare us for the HTML5 and web skill certification exam, using HTML, CSS and JS. I started to really enjoy the type of thought and logic that went into developing even really simple programs and websites, and enjoyed the sense of satisfaction when the code would turn out well and execute perfectly. I also found development rewarding as a hobby, as the ability to create programs that either sped up tedious tasks, or even fun little projects that would make the people I know laugh was an ability I was glad to have and work on improving. With this newfound interest, I dedicated some of my spare time into looking into more object oriented programming languages, and started to learn C++. This skill would help me out later in high school as well, where I had to learn how to write some minor robot C for my engineering class and Java for my AP computer science class. It was at this time, I knew for a fact that I wanted to write code for my career, though a little unsure of what type of programming job I wanted to go into. After enough research and conversation with my dad, who happens to be a developer himself, I decided that with the skills I would get from being a software engineer, I would be able to pursue most any tech career later as the languages themselves deprecate and change. I tried out traditional college for a year, but felt frustrated that despite being a computer major, it was still required that I take many classes that didn't interest or challenge me in the slightest. After looking at some alternatives, I found Flatiron school, and with the many awards, compliments and achievements that I saw, I knew that I wanted to go there to start my software engineering career. With all the resources that are available to me now that I'm going to Flatiron, I'm looking forward to what I will be able to learn in these next ten months.
